[WIP] orbs docs rework (#4506)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/orb-author-intro.md

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Introduction to Authoring Orbs"
short-title: "Authoring Orbs Introduction"
description: "Starting point for how to authoring an orb"
categories: [getting-started]
order: 1
---

* TOC
{:toc}

## Quick Start

> Orbs take [reusable configuration]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-concepts/#reusable-configuration) and package it in a way that can be published to and accessed on the [Orb Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/) so that they may be imported in multiple configuration files. If you manage multiple similar projects, consider abstracting out your config with orbs.

Reviewer: Maybe 
```
a way that can be published to and accessed on the [Orb Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/) so that they may be imported in multiple configuration files.
|
V
a way that can be published to the [Orb Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/) and imported into multiple configuration files.
```

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Introduction to Authoring Orbs"
short-title: "Authoring Orbs Introduction"
description: "Starting point for how to author an orb"
categories: [getting-started]
order: 1
---

* TOC
{:toc}

## Quick Start

> Orbs take [reusable configuration]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-concepts/#reusable-configuration) and package it in a way that can be published to the [Orb Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/) and imported into multiple configuration files. If you manage multiple similar projects, consider abstracting out your config with orbs.

Author: ```suggestion
Orbs take [reusable configuration]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-concepts/#orb-configuration-elements) and package it in a way that can be published to the [Orb Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/) and imported into multiple configuration files. If you manage multiple similar projects, consider abstracting out your config with orbs.
```

> Before authoring an orb, it is recommended that you become familiar with the [CircleCI config]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/config-intro/#section=configuration) and authoring [parameterized reusable config elements]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/reusing-config/#section=configuration) pages.

Author: ```suggestion
Before authoring an orb, it is recommended that you become familiar with the [CircleCI config]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/config-intro/) and authoring [parameterized reusable config elements]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/reusing-config/) pages.
```

categories: [getting-started]
order: 1
---

## Introduction to Orb Authoring

[Orbs]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-intro/) are [reusable packages of CircleCI configuration]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/reusing-config/), enabling you to create parameterized commands, jobs, and executors that can be [used across multiple projects]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-concepts/).

Hundreds of orbs are available from the [Orb Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/). Existing orbs are developed and maintained by a variety of authors: CircleCI, our technology partners, and the open-source community. Search the registry for the technology or service you would like to integrate with your projects.

If you want to join the community and author your own orb, the documents in this section are for you. If you manage multiple similar projects, consider abstracting out your config with orbs.

> Practice with [inline orbs](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/orb-author/#writing-inline-orbs). Inline orbs can be defined within a single config file for easy and quick testing.

Reviewer 2: Placing reminder here. I am currently searching for it. Fairly sure this PR has moved the inline orb link

Reviewer 2: Found it. `{{site.baseurl}}/2.0/reusing-config/#writing-inline-orbs`

> Orb Authors agree to our [Code Sharing Terms of Service](https://circleci.com/legal/code-sharing-terms/). All published orbs are made available publicly on the Orb Registry under the [MIT License agreement](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). For more information, see [Orb Licensing](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/licensing).

Author: ```suggestion
Orb Authors agree to the CircleCI [Code Sharing Terms of Service](https://circleci.com/legal/code-sharing-terms/). All published orbs are made available publicly on the Orb Registry under the [MIT License agreement](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). For more information, see [Orb Licensing](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/licensing).
```

## Key Concepts

> Orbs take [reusable configuration](({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/reusing-config/)) and package it in a way that can be published to the [Orb Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/) so that they may be imported in multiple configuration files.

Reviewer 3: I see the terms "reusable configuration" and "reusable configuration elements" in different places. Not sure if you want to be more cohesive

Reviewer 3: Also abbreviations on config vs configuration

Author: Hey @dsayling! We use both config and configuration loads throughout docs so I'm not too worried about that one. I think reusable configuration is the concept, and reusable configuration elements is for when we talk about the group of features, so I think these are both OK too. Let me know if you disagree though, and if you find the switching to be confusing to understand the content definitely shout!

Orbs consist of three main elements:

* [Commands]()
* [Jobs]()
* [Executors]()

With these three components, users will be able to replace hand-written config with the appropriate provided elements in the orb.

## Getting Started

To begin creating orbs, you will need to [setup the CircleCI CLI](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/local-cli/#installation) on your local machine, with a [personal access token](https://app.circleci.com/settings/user/tokens). For a full list of orb-related commands inside the CircleCI CLI, visit [CircleCI CLI help](https://circleci-public.github.io/circleci-cli/circleci_orb.html).

### Register a Namespace

Every organization registered on CircleCI is able to claim **one** unique [namespace](). This includes your personal organization and any organization you are a member of. In order to register the namespace for an organization you must be the owner of the organization.

Enter the following command to claim your namespace, if you have not yet claimed one.
- `circleci namespace create <name> <vcs-type> <org-name> [flags]`

### Create an Orb 

> Within our namespace we must create an orb, where we will eventually push our orb source to.

Author: ```suggestion
Within your namespace create an orb to which you will eventually push your orb source code.
```

> Enter the following command to create an empty orb within the namespace.

Author: ```suggestion
Run the following command to create an empty orb within your namespace.
```
